LIU YIN
 1324 S Mount Vernon Ave., Williamsburg, 23185     
 (757) 603-0034, lyin01@email.wm.edu

 EDUCATION
 M.S. in Computer Science     May 2015(expected)
 College of William and Mary, Williamsburg, VA
 M.S. in Communication and Information System     June 2013
 B.E. in Telecommunication Engineering June 2010
 Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China

 SKILLS
-  C, C++, Qt, Tcl, Awk, Shell, Java, SQL, HTML, CSS, jQuery
-  NS2/PDNS, MATLAB, LaTeX, Eclipse, Maven, Spring, Hibernate, GDB, Git, SVN

 EXPERIENCE
 Projects
-  A web app for inter-calibration study of satellites' data     2013
Led a team to design and develop a Java web application using Spring MVC framework. Analyzed and modeled the problem domain( data & service), leveraged Hibernate to simplify DAO implementation. Introduced unit testing to ensure correctness and robustness during module building. Added Spring Security module to secure URLs access.
-  Nachos system     2013
Implemented a modern Operating System“ Nachos” on a hardware( MIPS 2000) simulator using C++. Implemented Semaphore, Lock, Condition Variable, Monitor for concurrency control, file I/ O and process control related system calls to support user-level multiprogramming. Comparatively analyzed and evaluated system performance by implementing virtual memory and different scheduling algorithms. Added other features including a Nachos shell, a checkpoint system call to snapshot state of a user program.
 Research Assistant at Internet Technology Engineering R&D Center, Wuhan, China
-  Large-scale simulation of layered P2P streaming system     2012
Designed and simulated a layered P2P live streaming protocol using C++, which enables flexible customization of video streams to support heterogeneous receivers. Architected and developed an integrated layered P2P streaming evaluation framework by extending a H.264 SVC streaming evaluation framework to NS2, which can evaluate real video streams in large P2P network with more than 6000 nodes. Improved chuck selection algorithm by introducing a multi-level buffer map structure, increased average playback continuity of peers by over 25%.
-  An instant messaging app     2012
Designed and developed a user-friendly cross-platform instant messaging tool using Qt, including server and client. Implemented features including one-to-one chatting, group discussion, contacts management, file transferring, history management and offline messaging.
-  Research of multi-rate multicast routing with Network Coding     2011
 Proposed a multi-rate multicast routing algorithm with Network Coding, which achieves desirable throughput while minimizing coding cost and maintaining load balance at the same time. With research team, obtained a patent,“ A network transmission method using Network Coding.”
-  Research of Cooperative Spectrum Sensing in Cognitive Radio Networks     2010
Studied and modeled Secondary Users' cooperative sensing and decision problem in a TDMA communication system. Formulated a linear optimization problem to maximize system throughput. Simulation results outperform other cooperative decision methods.

 Teaching Assistant at Huazhong University of Science and Technology
-  Design of Electronic Circuit of Communication(course & lab)     2011-2012

 Internships
-  Network Maintenance Assistant, China Mobile. Changsha, China     Summer 2009
-  Market Researcher, Rich Advertisement Co., Ltd. Wuhan, China     Winter 2007

HONORS/AWARDS
Huazhong University of Science and Technology
-  Master's Research Scholarship     2010, 2011, 2012
-  Merit Student     2012
-  Art and Sport Excellence Award     2011
-  Outstanding Graduate     2010